>> Jem Young: Now we're
gonna talk about containers.
Containers are fascinating.
They are changing
the landscape of servers and
the way we think about how
to structure architecture.
A little bit ago we talked about how the
architecture matters more than we think
and as senior engineers there something
we need to think about is architecture.
And as senior full stack engineers,
we want to think carefully about how
our applications are structured,
as in how they live on the server.
So we're talking about containers because
they have been changing the game across
the net landscape.
Let's start with a micro service.
Does anybody have a good definition,
who's not Sam, of a micro service.
Like throw it out What does it sound like?
>> off screen female: A service
that only completes one task?
>> Jem Young: Yeah, I like that.
It's a teeny tiny service.
If we talk about microservices,
we talk about an architecture
of loosely connected services.
It's kind of a misnomer because
just because it's a microservice
doesn't mean it's really small and
lightweight.
So I like what you I like your definition
of its it only does one thing because
that's a better definition
of a microservice.
It only does one thing.
What's the opposite of
micro service architecture?
Yes.
>> off screen female: A monolith?
>> Jem Young: A monolith.
Yes.
That is one app that does everything.
Historically that's been a Java
application or a node application or
Python with Django, something like that,
where it's all one application.
There are trade offs we make
when we talk about moving to
microservices versus a monolith.
The good thing about a monolith is that.
You're all using the same language.
So if you hire a bunch of Python people,
we're all working in Python.
They're not separate services.
Security updates moving,
migrating from Python two to Python three,
you can do it all at one time.
And it actually makes maintenance a little
bit easier because you don't have a lot of
disparate languages and
services talking to each other.
It's just one application.
>> Jem Young: What is
the downside of a monolith?
>> off screen female: It's just harder
to make changes and automate things.
You have to push everything all at once.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
>> off screen male: You can get
away from having everything
loosely coupled with microservices.
You can kinda by design guarantee
that everything is independent.
And with a monolith, you can fall
into the pattern of having one
thing affect multiple other things and
it's tightly coupled.
And you can break things and
have unintended consequences.
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
it's exactly what you look like.
Would you rather have a bunch of tiny
houses that are easier to maintain?
Or would you rather have
one giant building?
It depends.
I won't be here to tell you,
you've one or the other.
I'm just here to tell you
about the different types,
I don't wanna politicize it too much.
>> off screen male: You
talked about upgrades and
keeping you stuff upgraded for security.
That's harder with the monolith
if you are upgrading packages,
you have to upgrade it
across the entire code base.
Versus little, or it can be harder.
It depends.
>> Jem Young: It depends.
So yes and no, it's not a one size
fits all and anybody that says
microservices are better than monolith,
monolith's better than microservice.
They're both wrong because it
really depends on your application,
how your company structured, what type
of engineers you have, things like that.
As far as applications go, yeah, it might
be easier to upgrade a microservice
because you can upgrade
them one at a time.
But at the other hand, you have all
the upgrades you have to do for
every single microservice.
You have all the security
patches you need to do for
every single microservice
versus a monolith.
You do it one time and it's all together.
It can be more cumbersome but
it's easier to do all at once.
So again, this whole container,
microservice monolith architecture,
it depends.
It depends on use case,
it depends on your company's builds.
But microservices are largely built on
this concept now called containers,
which we'll talk about in a second.
But I can speak a little bit about
microservices because I work at Netflix.
This is not like, this is an example
of our internal infrastructure.
But these are fake names, obviously.
It wouldn't tell you anything,
if you knew what a field craft was.
That's pretty cool, field craft,
makes me sound like a spy.
But Netflix is one of,
I won't say one of the leaders.
It makes me sound like
I'm tooting my own horn.
But we are one of the [LAUGH]
leaders in microservices.
It's something we all believe, that
it's more efficient for our use cases.
For instance, I work on the UI team.
So I live about here.
Because I'm not quite at the edge gateway.
That would be Zuul,
one of our open source Load balancers,
proxies, does lots of things.
That would be about here coming in and
I work about about here.
So I live on the UI layer, but
behind that is this high
[LAUGH] mess of complexity.
But the good thing is my team
runs React in a Node stack.
Other people run Java, other people
run Groovy, which is a flavor of Java.
Other people run PHP,
some people run in Python.
But every one of these teams
can maintain their own stack.
And as long as we maintain that common
API, you can kind of do whatever you want.
It very much lives up to
that freedom responsibility.
You maintain your own stack,
you maintain your own architecture.
And if your team is like the world's
greatest Rust programmers, write your
service in Rust, which will be really but
I don't need to know how it works.
That's the benefit of
the microservice architecture.
The downside is look at this
complexity instead of one thing here,
which is this giant Java app or
something like that.
We have all these other apps that
need to talk to each other and
maintain connections and things like that,
and we do this with this concept called.
A container.
Now what do you think a container is?
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> off screen male: It's a way of
partitioning your code in an environment
that it can run in, with only
the necessary components included.
>> Jem Young: Yes, so I'll ask you,
and even a bit harder question.
What's the difference between
a container and a virtual machine?
>> off screen male: A virtual machine
is a whole OS simulating machine.
A container can be lighter weight.
>> Jem Young: Precisely,
that's exactly right.
Virtual machines have
an entire operating system.
So in the old days of
the microservice architecture,
I would have to run a version of
Ubuntu like we're running now.
And then I'd run Node.
And then if I wanna run another
microservice for my database,
I'd run Fedora or
Ubuntu with another version of Node.
And that was the old days.
That seemed pretty good, cuz you're like
well, yeah that's a little bit heavy.
But at least now every service
has its own operating system and
then they can only talk to
other services over known APIs.
Containers take that concept and
trigger down even more.
Instead of running out
on an operating system,
like every container has
its own operating system,
we just run just the set of libraries that
it needs, and only that, nothing else.
And that's what a container is.
Containers are powerful in the way that
they are today and we can only use them
because of cloud computing and
the advances that we've made.
We've made advances in the hypervisor,
that is the process that controls other
processes, how they talk to each other.
And that's how we're working right now.
That's how our servers up and running, is
the fact that we can do process isolation.
But I'm running on this tiny,
tiny, tiny sliver of the server.
And honestly, you all can be running on
the same server as me, I have no idea.
Because we have process isolation and the
hypervisor is really good at segmenting
our resources to one or the other.
When we build on top of that,
we have this idea of containers.
So instead of the VPS, we can zoom in
even more and we take that concept of
a server and we just segment that
out into different sections.
But every section only has it's
own libraries, it's own resources.
It doesn't necessarily even know about
the operating system that it's on.
It doesn't care.
That's what the wrapper is for,
something like the orchestration layer.
Yes?
>> off screen male: I was gonna say,
it's kind of like the difference, but
tree shaking.
Where you only include the functionality
that you actually use,
versus including the entire library.
>> Jem Young: Yes exactly, or as I like
to say, the Columbo way of doing it.
Just the facts.
It's just what it needs.
So rather than including an entire
operating system on every single
application, we'll just include
the libraries that it needs.
>> Jem Young: This was the old days.
This would be a virtual machine.
This could be our server.
Actually it's pretty close
to our server right now.
We have NodeJS running,
we have Nginx running.
We later I'll go over
how to install MySQL.
Won't do too much with it,
but we can run Python.
This was the old way of doing it.
Containers are something like this.
It's still one server.
But now this is kind of
its own micro server.
And the MySQL database isn't running on
its own microserver, Nginx, etc., etc.
And they only have
the libraries that they need.
Why is this beneficial?
Like what's powerful about this.
We're not running an entire operating
system on every single application now but
what's something we can
do even more when we're
controlling the individual
containers itself.
>> off screen male: Run several of them.
Several copies.
>> Jem Young: Yeah no, you can, but
we can do that virtual machines too.
But you're on the right track.
What else?
>> Jem Young: They are.
Yes, they are faster.
But there's one benefit we probably don't
think of when we think of containers
>> off screen male: Static analysis.
>> Jem Young: No,
what do you mean by that?
>> off screen male: Static analysis allows
you to trace through the graph of what
the dependency tree is and figure out
what to include, what to exclude.
Reduces not just resources,
in terms of processing but also memory.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
Take that idea further, if we know,
because you're you're absolutely right.
I don't know if I call it static analysis
as much but the analysis of what every
single application is doing rather than
as a whole, I have to run my load,
run topper other commands to see like,
what exactly what containers doing,
or what a process is doing.
When I have it in container.
I know precisely what it's doing.
And by doing that I can limit
the amount of resources that have given
container has, and I can scale up and
scale down much faster.
For instance, if I run a Python
web server it's gonna be blocking.
We talked about blocking request earlier,
where if I request a really slow database
query or something like that, it's gonna
block all the other requests coming in
unless I have some sort of pooling enabled
but that'll slow down everything else.
But what if I want to just limit
the resources that Python can use?
And I want to allocate them in Node or
something like that.
I can more tightly control
what's happening on my server.
And since it's kind of its own server
in a way, and I can control that.
And that's really, really powerful.
And part of that power, I'll talk about
the benefits even more of containers,
but part of that power is like you all
were saying, you can roll these out much,
much faster.
The startup time is much faster because
I'm not starting an entire operating
system, that I have to install.
I need to run unattended upgrades.
I need to install Nginx on every
single server and all these things.
I can just run the library, and
I can distribute these over time.
The other benefit is I can make
updates to my node application,
my Python application without the other
services even knowing about it.
So I can control the individual rollouts
rather than rolling out entire servers
which take a lot of time to take up and
take down.
>> Jem Young: And we hit on some of the
benefits already but they're lightweight.
It's just the facts.
It's only the things that it needs.
They're portable.
In that case,
I can create a Node application,
wrap it in container and
put it anywhere I want.
And it doesn't matter what the operating
system is that point, it doesn't care,
because there's a layer that handles that
interaction with the operating system.
So if I want, I can write a Node
application, run it on Windows, run it on
my Mac computer and then run it on Ubuntu,
and it's all going to run the same,
very similar to a virtual machine but
without the operating system overhead.
Honestly, microservices are easier for
development because it's not a monolith.
The application is, but like you're
saying, Anna, it only does one thing.
And it does one thing well.
That makes reasoning about
what's happening much simpler.
They're easier to manage.
I should put an asterisk by this.
As you saw before with the,
>> Jem Young: Easier to
manage is totally relative.
Some might say this is harder to manage in
one big sect I might say it's easier to
manage.
In mind they're easier to manage
because it's only doing one thing and
that makes rational sense and they're
certain times it's gonna much faster cuz
there is no boot up time anymore certain.
It's just literally [INAUDIBLE] just
copying some files over and hitting run.
And what it really does is decouples
the application from the infrastructure.
It doesn't matter if we switch to Ubuntu
20 or Fedora or Red Hat or Debian or
something like that.
The application doesn't matter and
me as a developer, I don't care.
It doesn't affect my application
anyway because there's
a layer that does that inferring.
That explain containers I find people like
get hung up a little bit on them, and
they confuse them with virtual machines
and like monoliths and all that stuff.